---
layout: page
title: About
permalink: /about/
---

<img src="/data/portrait.jpg" width="300" align="right" style="border:30px solid transparent">

Hi, I'm Corentin Lapeyre. Born in Toulouse France, brought up between the
south of France and Berkeley, CA, I feel at home both in Europe and the
USA.

I have always been passionate about physics. After a scientific
baccalaureate, I went to engineering school, and really loved it! I was
lucky to participate in a [student race car
project](http://www.epsa-team.com/les-vehicules/symbioz). This confirmed
my taste for technological challenges, especially by handling a project
from start to finish: from computer-aided design and optimisation to
organizing and overseeing the production. After that I decided to turn to
aerospace engineering, and completed my masters in this field. After
6 months at Purdue University, I found an opportunity for a Ph.D. in
numerical combustion physics in France, and I decided to go back.
I defended my Ph.D. in September of 2015, and am now shifting towards
artificial intelligence and how recent advances in this field can apply to
physics, specifically numerical fluid dynamics, combustion, and the
geophysics of natural reservoirs.

During the course of my studies, I have extensively used and learned about
computer-aided design, as well as low and abstract level coding for
scientific applications.  I have worked with Fortran/MPI for High
Performance Computing applications, but have now become more of
a [Python](https://www.python.org/) evangelist.  I am a daily heavy user
of [git](https://git-scm.com/), [vim](http://www.vim.org/) and
[LaTeX](https://tug.org/mactex/) on Mac OS and Unix platforms.

My work today is at the interface between the scientific world and the
industry.  In my opinion, both can strongly benefit from each other.  The
industry can no doubt enjoy the added edge that most recent scientific
advancements can provide.  It might be less obvious, but I also think that
the world of scientific computing has much to learn about industry
standards and good practices, notably in the field of software.  Open
source is becoming ubiquitous in this area, as a tool for science and
industry to work together.  The field of machine learning and AI are
leading the way in this sense, and part of my mission is to spread this
practice to other fields of physics.
